---
title: My first step to Linux
date: 2018-10-06 15:44:50
categories:
- Linux
tags:
- Seedclass
- Linux
---

## First step to Linux


### 1 GNU

1.GNU is an operating system that is free software—that is, it respects users' freedom. The GNU operating system consists of GNU packages (programs specifically released by the GNU Project) as well as free software released by third parties. The development of GNU made it possible to use a computer without software that would trample your freedom
<!-- more -->
2.GNU is a Unix-like operating system. That means it is a collection of many programs: applications, libraries, developer tools, even games. The development of GNU, started in January 1984, is known as the GNU Project. Many of the programs in GNU are released under the auspices of the GNU Project; those we call GNU packages.

### 2 What are using Linux Kernel
- Android 
- WebOS

### 3 What happens after power on?

#### Bios
- Init your computer,and scan the hardware
- Read NBR  to RAM
- The Bios can be updated
- CIH Virus comes from the Bios changed



#### MBR/GPT
- Get the OS Loader 
- GUID Partition Table (GPT) is a standard for the layout of the partition table on a physical storage device used in a desktop or server PC, such as a hard disk drive or solid-state drive, using globally unique identifiers (GUID). 
- The difference between MBR and GPT
```
The Storage which is under 2 T uses MBR,
other uses GPT.
```
- Although GPT forms a part of the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) standard (Unified EFI Forum proposed replacement for the PC BIOS), it is also used on some BIOS systems because of the limitations of master boot record (MBR) partition tables, which use 32 bits for storing logical block addresses (LBA) and size information on a traditionally 512-byte disk sector.



#### OS Loader 
- It reads this file and starts the operating system selected.
- Get Linux Kernel

#### OS Kernel 
- It is backstage


#### Application Manager

- Manange application
- DOS:command.com
- Windows:explorer.exe
- Linux:init



#### Application


### 3 Some commands will be used


#### Document manager

##### (1) ps：display the state of process
- Display all
```
ps -A
```
- Assign user
```
ps -u root 
```

##### (2)grep:search string from files
- Search "test" from 1.txt
```
grep test 1.txt
```
- Search document which name has the string "update
"
```
grep -r update /etc/
```

#### （3）less:read the file 
- Read the file that you want 
```
less 1.txt 2.txt
```
- Check the information of PID with ps
```
grep -ef |less
```

#### (4) tar:compress and decompress files

- compress 
```
tar -czvf 1.tar.gz 1.txt
```

- decompress 
```
tar -xzvf 1.tar.gz
```
- list the compressed files but do not decompress
```
tar -tzvf 1.tar.gz
```

### Network

#### (1) ifconfig

#### (2) ip

### Power off your computer

#### (1)reboot 

#### (2)shutdown 

#### (3) init

## 4 VMWare
### virtual network mode 

- bridge
- host only 
- NAT

## 5 MakeFile

### (1) What is Makefile

- Most often, the makefile directs make on how to compile and link a program.
- A makefile works upon the principle that files only need recreating if their dependencies are newer than the file being created/recreated. 

### (2) Rules
```
target: dependencies
    system command(s)
```
- A target is usually the name of a file that is generated by a program; examples of targets are executable or object files. A target can also be the name of an action to carry out, such as "clean".
- A dependency (also called prerequisite) is a file that is used as input to create the target. A target often depends on several files. However, the rule that specifies a recipe for the target need not have any prerequisites. For example, the rule containing the delete command associated with the target "clean" does not have prerequisites.
- The system command(s) (also called recipe) is an action that make carries out. A recipe may have more than one command, either on the same line or each on its own line. Note the use of meaningful indentation in specifying commands; also note that the indentation must consist of a single <tab> character.


## 6 Access Files 

### (1) Disk information in Partition
- CHS
- LBA(Logical Block Address)

### (2)LVM

- In computer storage, logical volume management or LVM provides a method of allocating space on mass-storage devices that is more flexible than conventional partitioning schemes to store volumes. 


### (3)Filesystem

- Operating systems
Operating system placement.svg
About this image
Common features
Process management Interrupts Memory management File system Device drivers Networking Security I/Ovte
In computing, a file system or filesystem controls how data is stored and retrieved
- Taking its name from the way paper-based information systems are named, each group of data is called a "file". The structure and logic rules used to manage the groups of information and their names is called a "file system".

## 7 iniitrd.img

### (1) What's initrd.img

- An Image File load by OS Loader
- A temporary root system

### (2) Where is inittrd.img
```
title Linux 2.4 root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz ramdisk_size=8192 root=LABEL=/ initrd /boot/initrd.img
```
### (3) How important is it 

- As the carrier of temporary root system file
- Load the the drivers for Kenel to visit the real root system 
- execute the change of root system

## 8 Application Mananger /sbin/init 

### (1) Config file 

- /etc/inittab (sysvinit package)
- /etc/init/*.conf (upstart package)

### (2)Example 
```
id:3:initdefault:
si::sysinit:/etc/rc.d/rc.sysinit
l3:3:wait:/etc/rc.d/rc 3
1:2345:respawn:/sbin/mingetty tty1
```
## 9 What happens after Kernel

### 1.Orders of start
```
start Kernel 

initrd.img -> /init -> load driver -> mount real root -> switch root -> /sbin/init 

(load driver include disk , LVM driver , fs)
```

```
probe devices:udevd --load drivers 

fsck --readOnly

monut /proc ,/sys

probe all hardware and load modules

start service, including network startup

start up getty etc. for login session
```

### 10.login prompt

rm 70-persistene-net.rules when make system

/etc/shadow storage passward
which
pam.unix.d
/etc/init

### 11.location of grub

```
cd /usr/share/grub/

ls

df
```



